make xy just spit back xy pairs

let sample place them into tables


make everything iterators of tables

active elarning

des on nb

have to wait for first none "_" in samles


# magic

rationality:

+ Watching the most data I can
+ While change my mind the least, and do it least often.

So ignoring new data is irrational. And watching too much
is overwhelming (so we'll need some tricks to sanely
sample subsets of new information).

And changing your mind with every new whim or fad is
irrational-- new ideas required a solid foundation.

And making big changes to your current ideas is less
desirable than finding the smallest tweaks that most
accomodate new information.

Still, sometimes, when the data demands in, the
_least_ required change might still be massive. But
mass disruption should be your last resort, not your
first.

To me, rationality is like living on an ice flow.
Sometimes you can find large and solid chunks of ice
that last a long time where you can raise fine
igloos and fine families and spend happy days
watching the world float by while everyone feast on the fish
you catch near your lovely mobile home.  But don't
get complancent- you always need to watch what's
going on under your feet and all around you.
Sometimes, you're going have to do some jumping
around-- that's life, get used to it.

From an engineering perspective, the above means that I do not
learn once, then stop. Rather, I float down a data stream constantly
checking if old ideas still hold.


deep learning, spark, hadoop tell us soemthing about
big data, scalabiltiy, about handling vast amoungt
sof unstruture data. they tell us nothing about
human cognition or how to act as better scientists
or better rational people in our day to day life.
they tell us nothing on how to update and improve on
cetury old debates on philisophy of knowledge. they
don't help you tomorrow on deciding how to buya
shirt.

many many books saying hey learning is possible but
nothing that really tounches on the magic of
learning-- how it can eveen possible in the first
place-- what it is telling us about human cognitiona
nd agents reasoning in the world-- and how tcurrent
results might isnpire new generations of learners
and even a reconceputalization ofwhat it measn to be
rational.

lets start with that last point-- rationality. many
definitons of that but for me it has two parts:

+ knowing that your going to have your change your
mind about the reasons about why you are do what you do

+ knowing how to critically review new data such
that you don't change your mind too early or too
late.

So rationality is streaming over new data, and
recongizing something curious enough to stare at
twice.

Most learners do not stream over data. They do not
disucuss when (and when not) to update old beliefs
with new information. So the core of a rational learner
is

(1) input new records
(2) think, poke around, collect new insights
(3) alert about any anomalies, maybe revise old ideas
(4) go to 1

now it turns out this is not hard to do. iamginne a self-initilazing "table" object that
when you throw rows of data at it, it incremnetally updates itself. if this table is doing
predictions, it might fork sub-tables of rows relating to different things then learn
models from those differences.

now lets run that table in "eras" of (say) 100 records at a time (or 1000 or 1000000 or whatever is
a number that makes sense in your domain. Lets make predictions on the next era using data collected
from the last era. 

now take that same structure but have 10 tables. 
